Section on release notes (#75)
openjdk/guide: src/index.md

      [~~**`release-note=done`**~~]{#release-note-done}
    </td>
    <td class="dictionary">

>       Used to indicate wether a change requires a release note or not. The labels are always placed on the main JBS issue, never on the actual release note issue. See [Release Notes](#release-notes).

Reviewer: typo **wether** -> whether

Author: Fixed.

## Writing a release note

Writing the release note is the responsibility of the engineer who owns the issue. The note should be generated before the fix is reviewed, or when it's determined that a fix won't be addressed in the release it was found - in the case of known issues.

When writing a release note, be prepared for rather picky review comments about grammar, typos, and wording. This is for the sake of the Java community as a whole, as the language of the release note sets the tone for many blogs and news articles. For a widely used product like the JDK, the release notes are often copied verbatim (including typos) and published to highlight news in the release. This means that we need to take extra care to make sure the text in the release note is correct and has a professional language.

> The release note itself is written in a [JBS](#jbs---jdk-bug-system) sub-task to the issue that is used to push the change. There are a few steps to follow for the release note to find its way from JBS to the actual release note document.

Author: Going with "of" as pointed out by David below.

#. For the newly created sub-task do these steps:
   * The [Summary]{.jbs} should be a one sentence synopsis that is informative (and concise) enough to attract the attention of users, developers, and maintainers who might be impacted by the change. It should succinctly describe what has actually changed, not be the original bug title, nor describe the problem that was being solved. It should read well as a sub-section heading in a document.
   * Prefix the [Summary]{.jbs} with "Release Note:".
   * Add the [release-note]{.label} label. This is required for the release note to be included in the release notes.
   * Add the proper [RN-]{.label}label if applicable to indicate what section of the release notes it should be included in (see [RN-labels](#rn-labels) below).
   * Set the [Assignee]{.jbs} to the same person who owns the main issue.
   * Set [Affects Version]{.jbs} to the release versions for which the release note should be published.
   * Set the [Fix Version]{.jbs} to the same value that the main issue has.

>    * Enter the text of the release note in the [Description]{.jbs} field using markdown formatting, following the [CommonMark specification](https://spec.commonmark.org/current/). Markdown won't be rendered in JBS. You can use [dingus](https://spec.commonmark.org/dingus/) to see what the release note will look like. Note that ascii table formatting is supported but will not display correctly in the dingus page. For more information see [General Conventions for Release Notes](#general-conventions-for-release-notes) below.

Reviewer 2: Slight adjustment to text and added link to ascii table format page
```suggestion
   * Enter the text of the release note in the [Description]{.jbs} field using markdown formatting, following the [CommonMark specification](https://spec.commonmark.org/current/). While the markdown won't be rendered in JBS, you can use [dingus](https://spec.commonmark.org/dingus/) to see what the release note will look like. Note that [Github stlye ascii table formatting](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/working-with-advanced-formatting/organizing-information-with-tables) is supported but will not display correctly in the dingus page. For more information see [General Conventions for Release Notes](#general-conventions-for-release-notes) below.
```

   * While the [Priority]{.jbs} of the sub-task is set by default to be the same as the priority of the issue itself, it can be changed to adjust in what order the release note is listed compared to other release notes in the same build or release note section.

> #. Ask your Reviewers to have a look at the release note. Ideally you should have the release note reviewed at the same time as the code is reviewed. If it's later determined that a release note is necessary, then go back to the same engineers who reviewed the fix to review the release note.  Special care should be taken when writing a release note that will cover changes related to a vulnerability fix in order to avoid describing the vulnerability in a way that someone can better understand how to exploit it.

Reviewer 2: Slight changes to the text to make it more direct
```suggestion
#. Have the release note ready to be reviewed at the same time as the code is reviewed. If it's later determined that a release note is necessary, then go back to the same engineers who reviewed the fix to review the release note.  Special care should be taken when writing a release note that will cover changes related to a vulnerability fix in order to avoid describing technical details of how it could have been exploited.
```

* Avoid using Latin and abbreviations in the release note.
  * Use "also known as" instead of "aka"
  * Use "that is" or "to be specific" instead of "i.e."
  * Use "for example" instead of "e.g."

* The [Summary]{.jbs} should be in title case instead of sentence case.
  * Example: Decode Error with Tomcat Version 7.x

* The [Description]{.jbs} should be standardized to follow this pattern:
  * Sentence stating the change that was made
  * Background info/context
  * Example: A new system property, `jdk.disableLastUsageTracking`, has been introduced to disable JRE last usage tracking for a running VM.

* Special case: JEP release note
  * [Summary]{.jbs} - If the change is an actual JEP, use the JEP title.
  * [Description]{.jbs} - the JEP Summary text have already been heavily reviewed and also approved by the project lead. It should be the first sentence in the release note description. That would be analogous to the "change that was made" sentence in other release note descriptions. The remaining text would be composed of the background info from the JEP.
  * [Description]{.jbs} - The JEP release note description should contain the link to the JEP.

## RN-labels

> Unless tagged otherwise it will be assumed that the release note documents a change in behavior (will have likely required a CSR) or other item which should be included in the release notes. If the note covers a more specific type of change, then one of the following labels can be included (notes of a similar type will be listed together).

Reviewer 2: s/tagged/labeled/ ?

Author: Yes, labeled.

[To the top](#){.boxheader}
:::

# Release Notes

::: {.box}
[Quick Links]{.boxheader}

* [release-note label description](#release-note)
:::

> Release notes for a product (e.g. the JDK) are published together with a release of the given product. Release notes describe changes that are important for a user of the product to know about. This is usually things that may affect the user's choice to upgrade to the specific version.

Reviewer: Some suggestions:

"Release notes for a product are published together..." ->. "Release notes for a product are part of the  release deliverables "

 "user's choice" -> "user's decision"

> When you write a release note for your feature, be prepared for rather picky review comments about grammar, typos, and wording. This is for the sake of the Java community as a whole, as the language of the release note sets the tone for many blogs and news articles. For a widely used product like the JDK, the release notes are often copied (word by word, including typos) and published to highlight news in the release. This means that we need to take extra care to make sure the text in the release note is correct and has a professional language.

Reviewer: "When you write a release note" ->. "When writing a release note"

For the general paragraph above,  doesn't the doc team also review the release note and do some minor cleanup?

The release note itself is written in a JBS sub-task to the issue that is used to push the change. There are a few steps to follow in order for the release note to find its way from JBS to the actual release note document.

#. Add the label `release-note=yes` on the main JBS issue you want a release note for. That is, the JBS issue that is used to push the change, **not** the CSR (if there is one).

> #. Create a sub-task of the same JBS issue that you want a release note for (not of the CSR).

Reviewer: The previous sentence uses "main JBS issue" and here we state "same JBS issue". We should probably. be consistent or perhaps create a bulleted list for actions agains the main JBS issue?

Author: Rephrased and reformated the list.

   * Prefix the name of the sub-task with "Release Note:".

>    * The title of the release note sub-task should be a one sentence synopsis that is informative (and concise) enough to attract the attention of users, developers, and maintainers who might be impacted by the change.

Reviewer 3: The title should succinctly describe what has actually changed, not be the original bug title, nor describe the problem that was being solved. It should real well as a sub-section heading in a document.

Author: Added.  Did you mean "read well" or is "real well" a term that I'm not aware of in this context?

   * Add the `release-note` label to the sub-task.
   * Add the proper `RN-`label (see below) to the release note sub-task.

>    * Assign the sub-task to the person who should write the release note.

Reviewer: This is typically the owner of the JBS issue that is being addressed so I am not sure this is needed?

   * Set the Fix Version of the sub-task to the same value that the main issue has.

>    * Enter the text of the release note in the **Description** field. Some markdown formatting is available (even though it's not rendered in JBS).

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:

Enter the text of the release note in the **Description** field using markdown formatting (even though it won't be rendered in JBS).

Author: Yes, that looks better.

## RN-labels

The RN-label is used to indicate what kind of change the release note is for. All release note sub-tasks must have at least one of these labels.

[**`RN-NewFeature`**]{#RN-NewFeature}
:   New Feature or enhancement.

[**`RN-IssueFixed`**]{#RN-IssueFixed}
:   A significant issue which has been fixed, would normally be a regression or an issue which unknowingly released in a new feature.

[**`RN-KnownIssue`**]{#RN-KnownIssue}
:   An issue that wasn't possible to fix by the time the release was GA'd.

[**`RN-Removed`**]{#RN-Removed}
:   Covers an API, feature, tool etc. which has been removed from the JDK.

[**`RN-Deprecated`**]{#RN-Deprecated}
:   Covers an API that has been marked as deprecated in the release.

[**`RN-Important`**]{#RN-Important}
:   Used to indicate that the release note should be highlighted in some fashion, such as listing it at the beginning of the release notes.

[**`RN-`(distro)**]{#RN-distro}
:   Used to indicate that the release note is only relevant for a specific JDK distribution. E.g. RN-Oracle

[~~**`RN-Change`**~~]{#RN-Change}
:   Deprecated.

Also see [release-note](#release-note).

> 

Reviewer: It might be worth pointing to an example of what is considered a good release note in JBS

Author: I'd be happy to do that. Do you have any examples of good release notes?

Reviewer 4: Perhaps a specific issue from the 18 notes:  https://jdk.java.net/18/release-notes (note that this link may be transient, but this JBS issues themselves are stable). The 17 release notes may also contain possibilities:  https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/17-relnote-issues.html .

Author: I've added a link to the JDK Release Note index. Hopefully they are good enough to serve as examples.

[To the top](#){.boxheader}
:::

# Release Notes

::: {.box}
[Quick Links]{.boxheader}

* [release-note label description](#release-note)
:::

> Release notes for a product (e.g. the JDK) are part of the release deliverables. They describe changes that are important for a user of the product to know about. This is usually things that may affect the user's decision to upgrade to the specific version.

Reviewer 4: "to know about.  This is usually" -> "to know.  These are usually"

Author: Fixed.

> When writing a release note for your feature, be prepared for rather picky review comments about grammar, typos, and wording. This is for the sake of the Java community as a whole, as the language of the release note sets the tone for many blogs and news articles. For a widely used product like the JDK, the release notes are often copied (word by word, including typos) and published to highlight news in the release. This means that we need to take extra care to make sure the text in the release note is correct and has a professional language.

Reviewer 4: Consider: "are often copied (word by word, including typos)" -> are often copied verbatim (including typos)"

Author: Fixed.

> The release note itself is written in a JBS sub-task to the issue that is used to push the change. There are a few steps to follow in order for the release note to find its way from JBS to the actual release note document.

Reviewer 4: Consider: "to follow in order for the release note" -> "to follow for the release note"

Author: Fixed.

#. Do these steps for the main issue, that is, the JBS issue that is used to push the original change, **not** on backports or the CSR (if there is one).
   * Add the label `release-note=yes`.
   * Create a sub-task.
#. For the newly created sub-task do these steps:
   * The **Summary** should be a one sentence synopsis that is informative (and concise) enough to attract the attention of users, developers, and maintainers who might be impacted by the change. The **Summary** should succinctly describe what has actually changed, not be the original bug title, nor describe the problem that was being solved. It should read well as a sub-section heading in a document.
   * Prefix the **Summary** with "Release Note:".
   * Add the `release-note` label.
   * Add the proper `RN-`label (see below).
   * Add an **Assignee**.
   * Set the **Fix Version** to the same value that the main issue has.
   * Enter the text of the release note in the **Description** field using markdown formatting (even though it won't be rendered in JBS).
#. Ask your Reviewers to have a look at the release note.
#. When you are done, Resolve the release note sub-task as "Delivered".

> For examples of well written release note issues in JBS, see [JDK-8276929](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8276929) or [JDK-8278458](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8278458).

Reviewer 4: I think both of these are great in terms of the RN text.  The second, 8278458 for JDK 18, uses label "RN-change" which is deprecated according to lines 1588-1589.  Is this label really deprecated, or just denigrated?
